Reviewer response (#85)
greenelab/annorxiver_manuscript: content/reviewers_response.md

> 
> Luckily there are plenty more actually interesting results reported in this manuscript, not least that of 23,271 preprint-published pairs, 17,952 of those pairs (>77%) had a published version present within the PMCOA corpus.  I don't think the authors quite realise the significance of this result. 77% is a very very high rate of open access. It could do with being discussed more within the manuscript e.g. relative to the overall (lower) rate of open access of _all_ biomedical and life science research articles. What does this signify about preprint authors / 'preprinters'? 
> 
> I can think of a couple of hypotheses:
> 
>  a) preprinters are perhaps more likely to have grant-funded research subject to an open access policy
> 
> b) perhaps preprinters are more publishing 'savvy' and want to achieve more impact/citations and thus strive harder to ensure that the eventual journal-published version of their work is open access (reflected in being in PMCOA).

> **We appreciate your optimistic viewpoint on our manuscript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We appreciate the reviewer's positive comments on our manuscript.
```

> We agree that 77% of preprint-published pairs found in PMCOA is a surprising discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reviewer is corrected that we did not realize that the finding of 77% of preprint-published pairs being present in PMCOA is a surprising discovery, and we thank this reviewer for bringing this to our attention.
```

> We updated our discussion in our manuscript to emphasize this point.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now include the following in our discussion section to emphasize this point:**

ADD IN THE TEXT FROM THE DISCUSSION SECTION HERE IN ITALICS.
```

 
> If it were my choice I would cut the entire subsection 'Document embeddings derived from bioRxiv reveal fields and subfields'. It is already known that document embeddings can reveal fields and subfields. Being 'preprints' or 'biorxiv preprints' rather than say published journal articles won't change that. I found this section very uninteresting and extremely un-novel. It is descriptive and accurate, but in the context of an already long manuscript, I feel it is unnecessary.

> **We decided that this analysis is necessary for our manuscript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We felt that this analysis also included other findings that were less obvious: namely the principal components that separated fields and the finding that certain fields like systems biology were spread across certain components that distinguished quantitative systems biology from cellular systems biology papers.
We think that this lays the groundwork for a number of future research efforts.
```

> However, we did move this section into our supplement.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we agree with the reviewer that this manuscript does present a broad examination of the full text content of _bioRxiv_ and is somewhat lengthy, so we did move this section into the supplement.**
```

> Aside from the manuscript, I have some brief comments on the actual web application.
> 
> I tried some palaeontology preprints (it's a field i'm very familiar with). The results were rather mixed.
> e.g. for https://greenelab.github.io/preprint-similarity-search/?doi=10.1101/2020.12.10.406678 ("The first dinosaur egg remains a mystery"), the most similar paper recommendations were excellent. However, the most similar journals suggested were surprisingly poor - many of these could obviously at a glance never publish this preprint (dinosaurs are not plants!) e.g. American Journal of Botany, World Archaeology, Journal of Phycology, The Holocene, Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society. Linnean Society of London
> 
> But I realise that PMCOA isn't exactly great training date for interpreting palaeontology articles -- fringe content from PMC's perspective(?)

> **Thank you for pointing this fact out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We agree that these results highlight a subtle limitation when using PMCOA to train our classifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree that using PMCOA as a training set will limit the fields to which the website can be applied.
We felt that PMCOA was likely to be appropriate for much _bioRxiv_ and _medRxiv_ content, which are the servers our tool supports.
```

> We want to point out that our resource has an auto-updater that monthly incorporates new papers posted to PMCOA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have also implemented a system to automatically update to bring in new PMCOA papers.
```

> This suggests that over time if PMCOA incorporates more articles related to this example, then the issue will be resolved.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If PMCOA begins to include more journals that publish articles in these fields or author-contributed manuscripts in these fields, then the tool would be more likely to identify appropriate matches.**
```

 
> Specific comments:
> 
> 1.) https://hypothes.is/a/1ODs5NLbEeuhnEPjCpUFpA
> 
>I think this needs to be made more specific as [25] analysed a few different things.
>
>Your statement here is true with respect to their analysis of abstract text "Over 50% of abstracts had changes that minorly altered, strengthened, or softened the main conclusions"
>
>BUT
>
>it is not true with respect to the panels and tables analysis in [25]:
>
>"over 70% of 162 published preprints were classified with “no change” or superficial rearrangements to panels and 163 tables, confirming the previous conclusion"
>
>thus perhaps you should consider writing something like:
>
>an analysis of preprints posted at the beginning of 2020 revealed that over 50% underwent minor changes in the abstract text as they were published, but over 70% had 'no change' or only superficial rearrangements to panels and tables [25].

> **We thank you for the suggested change and have incorporated the following change within our revised manuscript.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree with the reviewer that the proposed phrasing is better. We now write:**
```

```diff
- Preprint repositories by definition do not perform in-depth peer review, which can result in posted preprints containing inconsistent results or conclusions [...]; however, an analysis of preprints posted at the beginning of 2020 revealed that most underwent minor changes as they were published [...].

+ Preprint repositories by definition do not perform in-depth peer review, which can result in posted preprints containing inconsistent results or conclusions [...]; however, an analysis of preprints posted at the beginning of 2020 revealed that over 50% underwent minor changes in the abstract text as they were published, but over 70% did not change or only had simple rearrangements to panels and tables [...].
```

> 2.) https://hypothes.is/a/djNirNLcEeu2YxNM5WBxvA
> 
>but to clarify, you did remove these from the analysis, right? It would just be good to clarify that. They are easy to identify and should just be removed. I can't see how they would add anything but noise to this analysis. What is the total number of preprints after withdrawn preprints are removed from the sample?
 

> **Initally, we did not remove these preprints from our analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**In the version of the manuscript that the reviewer saw, we did not remove these preprints from our analysis as we felt their impact would be minimal.
```

> We decided removeing these preprints from our analysis was a better approach and we updated our text to reflect this change.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the reviewer's comments, we have now rerun all of the analyses with these withdrawn articles removed.
This did not lead to substantive changes in the article or figures, but we agree it was the most rigorous analysis and are happy that the reviewer brought up this point.**
```

> 3.) https://hypothes.is/a/bmdkpNLeEeuZ0k8oLqyeWQ
> 
>actually, there need not necessarily be an embargo period. Many publishers now offer a zero-day embargo so that the author accepted manuscript can be deposited either at acceptance (before even journal publication!) or on the day of journal publication. Even if the journal normally tries to embargo the work, you can see some full text author manuscripts become immediately available well before the journal would normally permit them 'out' thanks to the Plan S Rights Retention Strategy e.g. this one here: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7610590/
>
>So what you should really say here is that full text works appear in PMC as either accepted author manuscripts (green open access) or via open access publishing at the journal (gold open access).
>
>BTW, I resent calling it a 'closed access' [article?] if the accepted manuscript is fully freely available -- that would seem to give undue primacy to the journal published version. It's an article with different versions - one freely accessible at a repository e.g. PMC, without publisher branding and another behind a paywall at the publisher website with publisher branding

> **We agree that 'closed access' may not be appropriate for this description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree that 'closed access' was imprecise phrasing.
```

We have updated this section in our manuscript.**

```diff
- PMC articles can be closed access ones from research funded by the NIH appearing after an embargo period or be published under Gold Open Access [...] publishing schemes.

+ Articles appear in PMC as either accepted author manuscripts (Green Open Access) or via open access publishing at the journal (Gold Open Access [...]).
```

> 4.) https://hypothes.is/a/-v_PbtLeEeu8Rw8afgzT5g
> 
> presuming a journal allows individual articles to be published with a CC BY licence under a so-called 'hybrid-OA' option, can a journal really NOT participate for those CC BY licenced articles? If biomedically relevant and CC BY licensed surely PMC takes that content at the article level and thus its debatable as to whether journals really have the power to actually 100% not participate.

> **We have updated our manuscript to take this point into account.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree with the reviewer that this is an important distinction and have adjusted our text:**
```

```diff
- Individual journals have the option to fully participate in submitting articles to PMC, selectively participate sending only a few papers to PMC, only submit papers according to NIH's public access policy [...], or not participate at all.

+ Individual journals have the option to fully participate in submitting articles to PMC, selectively participate sending only a few papers to PMC, only submit papers according to NIH's public access policy [...], or not participate at all; however, individual articles published with the CC BY license may be incorporated.
```

> 5.) https://hypothes.is/a/vekhYNLfEeuxGm9i6MkLqw
> it's a real pity you chose not to compare preprints to author manuscripts. As your results demonstrated, lots of the word changes were just journal-style related e.g. "figure" -> "fig." . An analysis of just preprints matched to author manuscripts would get more closely and cleanly to what the textual difference between pre-peer-review and post-peer-review (without minor stylistic changes).

> **We recognize that author manuscripts have the potential to remove some of the journal-related stylistic changes revealed in our token analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree that contrasting differences in bioRxiv to author-supplied vs journal-supplied manuscripts have the potential to remove some of the journal-related stylistic changes revealed in our token analysis.
We felt that this would be an interesting manuscript in its own right and that we would not be able to give it an appropriate treatment within this manuscript.
```

>
>See figure 3a from 'Open access levels: a quantitative exploration using Web of Science and oaDOI data' by Bosman and Kramer for a comparator looking at OA levels in biomedical and life science papers https://peerj.com/preprints/3520.pdf even in the 'best' OA performing subfield (Cell Biology) it doesnt reach 70%. 30% to 50% is more typical albeit looking at 2016 publications.
>
>Put another way, we only 'lose' 23% of biomedical preprinted research to paywalled journals that do not allow a copy of the work to be made full text available in the PMCOA corpus, in reasonable time**. And in those cases we still have access to the preprint
>
>** with no doubt many other caveats such as cases where the author could do it without help from the journal, but does not for some unknown reason

> **We appreciate you point out this interesting fact, and we have updated our discussion accordingly.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We appreciate that the reviewer pointed out this interesting finding in our results that we had missed, and we have updated our discussion accordingly.**
```

```diff
- The majority of research involving bioRxiv focuses on the metadata of preprints; however, the language contained within these preprints has not previously been systematically examined.

+ Over 77% of bioRxiv preprints with a corresponding publication in our snapshot were successfully detected within Pubmed Central's Open Access Corpus (PMCOA).
+ This suggests that most work from groups participating in the preprint ecosystem is now available in final form for literature mining and other applications.
+ Most research on bioRxiv preprints has examined their metadata; we examine the text content as well.
```

> 8.) https://hypothes.is/a/aWmt3tLlEeuh3M-Ku8ThvQ
> 
> To be clear 326 stopwords is the default setting?
>
>Interestingly 'ca' is one of those 326 stopwords. I would have thought that one might actually be significant in a life sciences context e.g. calcium channels "Ca2+"

> **Yes, 326 stopwords are the default setting.** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We used the 326 stopwords provided by default.
We agree that the stopwords are not precisely tuned for life sciences research.
We have adjusted our text to say:**

 ADD TEXT CHANGE HERE NOTING IT IS THE DEFAULT 
```

> 9.) https://hypothes.is/a/dkIurtLmEeuqkU-qTN4dtg
> 
> I'm sure you've got this in the github, but just to make the manuscript more readily understandable without digging around in github, do you think you could provide as a supplementary file a list of those 100 most frequently occurring tokens, so that people can get a better feel for what the data is here?

> **We have added a supplementary file that provides a listing of 100 tokens for our corpora KL analysis.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree with the reviewer that this is a convenient table to have at hand.
This is now Supplementary Table INSERT TABLE NUMBER.**
```

```

> 12.) https://hypothes.is/a/DzrzGtLtEeuJlcdOlUfUBA
> 
> I'm surprised to see no citation given to JANE: https://jane.biosemantics.org/
>
>https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/24/5/727/202224
>
>reviewed in https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6300233/
>
>The 'find journals' functionality of JANE appears somewhat similar to the discovering similar journals functionality here.

**Thank you for pointing this citation out. 
We have incorporated it into our manuscript.**

```diff
- We developed a web application that places any bioRxiv or medRxiv preprint into the overall document landscape and identifies similar papers and journals.

+ We developed a web application that places any bioRxiv or medRxiv preprint into the overall document landscape and identifies topically similar papers and journals (similar to [..]).
```

> 13.) https://hypothes.is/a/eJ7-DtLpEeuh0A8OL8WAWw
> 
> This is the kind of journal-faff difference that I hypothesise would not be visible or less visible if one did an analysis of preprints vs author manuscripts.
>
>There is change but is change from figure to 'fig.' to suit journal style actually helpful/valuable? In my opinion it is not!

> **We recognize the limitation of our design choice and have mentioned using accepted author manuscripts as an alternative for future analyses.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We recognize the limitation of our design choice and agree it would be interesting to compare journal-supplied vs author-supplied manuscripts in a future study.**
```

> 14.) https://hypothes.is/a/-ixA_NLqEeuv6YviR-lI0A
> 
> I would cut this entire subsection from the manuscript to make it shorter (or relegate it to a supplementary section).
>
>Don't we already know that if one uses full texts we can determine the subfield of the paper? It's not that interesting in my opinion and not relevant to the main hypotheses of the paper -- comparing between preprints and the journal published version.

> **We believe this section is needed when performing a descriptive analysis on the bioRxiv corpus; however, we moved this section to the supplement.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We believe this section is needed to describe the landscape of the bioRxiv corpus; however, we agree the manuscript is long and has many results, so we moved this section to the supplement.**
```

> 15.) https://hypothes.is/a/V2wj3NLqEeuZ9idQ44yS4Q
> 
> adjusting for recency? i.e. not sampling 2019 preprints? in figure C the line indicates (if I'm interpreting correctly) that overall only 46.55% are published but that's because it includes very recent preprints that haven't had time to be journal published yet. Just be explicit that you are adjusting for recency (i.e. excluding 2019 and newer preprints) when you say that most preprints are eventually published.

> **We included all preprints (from 2013 to 2019/early 2020) posted onto biorxiv when calculating this proportion.**

Reviewer: This response to reviewers is not precise. Can you be more precise about what you did? Is the manuscript updated to be precise:
> Just be explicit that you are adjusting for recency (i.e. excluding 2019 and newer preprints) when you say that most preprints are eventually published

If not, it should be. If yes, what change did you make? Put it here :)

> 16.) https://hypothes.is/a/N8cKltLrEeuZ-iPc5lrP5g
> 
> text changes relative to the journal published version? You might want to make that more explicit. Text changes alone is not adequately specific in my opinion.

**We agree that text changes were a bit vague and have updated the title accordingly.**

```diff
- Preprints with more versions or more text changes took longer to publish

+ Preprints with more versions or more text changes relative to their published counterpart took longer to publish
```

> 17.) https://hypothes.is/a/z4r5ztLgEeupmPfOPmlVbw
> think this is insufficient information.
>
>It should be more clearly highlighted that the NYTAC is proprietary data and it may require a fee of $150-300 to be paid to access, if a non-member of the Linguistic Data Consortium. To say merely “is available upon request” and nothing else is not quite true to my eyes - please warn that it may require payment to access, depending on one's institutional affiliation (or lack thereof). 

> **We have updated text to make the fees accessing NYTAC more apparent.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree and have updated this text to make the fees accessing NYTAC more apparent.**
```

```diff
- Access to the New York Times Annotated Corpus (NYTAC) is available upon request with the Linguistic Data Consortium at [https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2008T19](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2008T19).

+ New York Times Annotated Corpus (NYTAC) can be accessed from the Linguistic Data Consortium at [https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2008T19](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2008T19) where there may be a \$150 to \$300 fee depending on membership status.
```

> is using a proprietary data set that charges for access congruent with the PLOS data availability policy?
>  
> See: "Please note, if data have been obtained from a third-party source, we require that other researchers would be able to access the data set in the same manner as the authors" https://journals.plos.org/plosone/s/data-availability despite that URL indicating just PLOS ONE, the policy applies to all PLOS journals, unless otherwise noted.

> **We believe that using the NYTAC dataset does not violate PLOS's data availability policy.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We believe that using the NYTAC dataset does not violate PLOS's data availability policy. We accessed the dataset in accordance with this policy.**
```

# Reviewer #2

> Overall, I enjoyed this manuscript for offering a way to quantify the transition of preprints to manuscripts within the biological sciences. Further, the authors develop an approach that could also more generally be useful for classifying biomedical literature, and they even provide as an example a web-based program to find potential publication avenues.

> **We are glad you enjoyed reading our manuscript.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We appreciate the reviewer's positive sentiment about our work.**
```

> The methodological approach of the authors is quite unexpected. While I do not see a fundamental flaw in their approach, I would anticipate it to be biased toward the most frequent phrases. When performing computational research there is a risk to pursue analyses through well-intended "improvements" or "customizations" whenever the approach does not seem to yield the expected outcome. As some people could be tempted to interpret parts of the analysis of the authors as warning flags for above having happened, I would recommend adding some additional control analyses and explicit statements about their chosen rationales.
> 
> Particularly, I would be very curious about the discussion, or main text commenting on why the authors created a custom scheme of classifying documents and their similarity based on vectors of words instead of using existing approaches that provide vectors of documents - including doc2vec that is included in the software package that the authors used for word2vec. Do the results change according to the approach?

**Our goal was to maximize the interpretability of the document embedding space when characterizing preprints within the bioRxiv landscape.

> Neural networks are challenging to interpret due to their non-linear activation layers.

Reviewer: Can you remove this line and the lines below when you edit? I added above instead or directly revising each line.

**Doc2vec vs Word2vec in Journal Recommendations**
![Doc2vec vs Word2vec Journal Recommendation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/annorxiver/13d9789370900a1d04fb296457fd1faf2d76818a/pmc/journal_recommendation/output/figures/doc2vec_word2vec_comparison.png)

> Further, word2vec often seems to work even better when first trained on a larger corpus before then being applied or transferred to more specialized corpora. Personally, I also made this experience when following an example tutorial provided by the creators of the package that the authors used - which too suggests starting with existing pre-trained models. While the more restricted training done by the authors might have reduced the sensitivity of their approach (… which would likely only strengthen their claims), I would be curious whether there was an additional rationale for avoiding the former strategy that might be missed by readers (e.g.: different meanings such as "abstract" that has different meanings for scientists and non-scientists?). 
 

> **We chose to use an unbiased approach for training our word2vec model as our goal was to preseve latent definitions contained within preprints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We did consider using a pretraining step, but we were worried that then it might be hard to differentiate the effect of pretraining from the text content of bioRxiv.
Since our goal was to explore the linguistic landscape of bioRxiv itself, we elected not to do this.
We agree with the reviewer that if the goal is to enhance the predictive performance of the similarity search webserver, this would be a good step to take.
As with above, we may consider this in a future iteration of the server, but at this point we want to make sure the work continues to characterize the linguistic landscape of bioRxiv.
```

> For example, under a pretrained model the word paper could have a preexisting context relating to newspapers or wikipedia articles, rather than a conext relating to scientific articles.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Likewise, I'm wondering why the authors used a Euclidean distance for word embeddings instead of a Cosine similarity (which if I recall correctly would also be default in the similarity module of the package which the authors used). Cosine similarity should also allow the authors to make statements about the similarity of words without imposing assumptions on similar text lengths or usage frequencies.

**We are using cosine similarity within our linguistic variation analysis.

> Regarding our missing preprint publish link analysis, pure euclidean distance has the same performance as cosing similarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Under this task, preprints and their published counterparts have significantly lower distances regardless of the distance metric used (comparison figure provided below).**

![Distance comparison](https://github.com/greenelab/annorxiver/blob/ff456c5c5cb7cddd16400f6e5b74422e1b33d349/biorxiv/article_distances/output/figures/distance_metrics_top_k_precision.png)

> Similarly, I was wondering how the "journal-based" approach, which the authors mention briefly against the influence of high publication frequency journals, was implemented. Further, if it could have been avoided by avoiding the Euclidean space.
>
> The mapping of similarity seems to be based on individual pairs of text and as such it would seem vulnerable of shifting distributions (e.g.: if published articles were somewhat different from preprints, as implied in Figure 1A). I would suspect that the authors would be able to improve their performance even further by doing global matching between many pairs (… again see their adherence to a weaker approach as something that ultimately strengthens their findings). Again, a comment on the rationale of their chosen approach could convey additional non-evident considerations.

> **Our journal-based approach is still required as cosine/euclidean distance does not combat the issue of journal overrepresentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**While a more optimal distance metric could make some difference in performance, it wouldn't substantially change the issue of the background frequency whereby some mega journals have published orders of magnitude more manuscripts than others.
We feel that the two approaches together (nearest publications, nearest centroids) provide a reasonable solution that can be effectively integrated into a web interface.
The reviewer's additional comment about implementing an explicit adjustment for the distributional shift is quite insightful and would likely be a path to improved performance.
We could imagine using something like orthogonal Procrustes to align the preprint-publication vector spaces before performing search.
We also recently added the capability to automatically update the search indices, which makes implementing this more challenging (we'd want to check the alignments each time), so we didn't implement this at this time but we agree with the reviewer that this is an important path to explore for improved performance in the future.**
```

> We control for this issue by calculating a centroid for each journal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This centroid is constructed by taking the average of every published document present within each journal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This way, every journal will have an equal representation for our classifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The shift in distribution could affect our paper-paper classifier which is why we provided top 10 results instead of best paper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Another way to combat this issue is to use a technique called orthogonal procrustes, which is a linear algebra techique designed to align two vector spaces.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> I love the web application!

**We are happy you like the application.**

> No statistics are given for the enrichments in Figure 1B-E.

**We report each token with a 95% confidence interval (CI). 
Our frequency counts are sufficiently large that all calculated p-values are approximately or exactly zero.**

> I would welcome a supplemental analysis, that removes single letters and special characters from the analysis of Figure 1B-E as they might change the baseline.

> **We have added this analysis to our supplement.**

Reviewer: Can you put the figure here too? And also provide the reviewer with the figure/section in the supplement? Make their life easy! :-D

**We have provided a table in our supplemental section.**

> The definition of "True matches" could be more explicit in within the main text as the preceding figure 3A could for some people set up a different anticipation.

**We agree this term is too vague, and we have updated the text to be more explicit.**

```diff
- Approximately 98% of our 200 pairs with an embedding distance in the 0-25th and 25th-50th percentile bins were scored as true matches (Figure 3B).

+ Approximately 98% of our 200 pairs with an embedding distance in the 0-25th and 25th-50th percentile bins were successfully matched with their published counterpart (Figure 2B)
```

> The association given in Figure 4A seems to mainly stem from a few papers with large distances. Would an association be present when using the rank-based Spearman correlation instead of a linear regression? Would, for visualization, a logarithmic relationship describe the data better than a linear one?

> **We believe there is a misconception about our figure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This figure depicts the median half-life publication time for each preprint category within bioRxiv.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This figure depicts the median half-life publication time for each preprint category within bioRxiv, so we don't think that it is driven by outliers within categories.
We have adjusted the figure legend to more clearly note what we plotted.**
```
Can you also adjust the first line of that figure legend to:
> Author-selected categories were associated with modest differences in the median time to publish.

Right now it being the median is in only the second sentence and might get overlooked.

> I believe that the analysis of Figure 4 B is quite clever as it would seem to address the thinkable concern of preprints with no delay and changes mainly stemming from those manuscripts that were already essentially accepted by manuscripts at the time of posting.

> **We are glad you found our analysis insightful.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We are glad the reviewer found our analysis insightful.**
```

> The analysis remarks that for the "Preprints in Motion Collection" the relationship between textual distance and time to publication disappears, and supports this through Figure 6E. However, the background trend in figure 6E includes publications that have been published at a time that exceeds a year. Hence a more faithful comparison would be to censor the background data by a distribution of durations that would correspond to the distribution of durations that would be possible for the "Preprint in Motions Collection" (taking distribution corresponding to interval between their dates on bioRxiv and the time at which authors assessed whether manuscripts were published).

> **We have provided a supplemental analysis within our manuscript that shows results after filtering the background distribution based on publication time.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This point is very interesting!
The preprints in motion selection included preprints that were both posted within a specific time interval and then subsequently published.
We think the best comparison set would be with preprints posted on the same dates as preprint in motion preprints, but where the analysis is conducted on the set after enough years have passed for those that will be published to have been published.
Since we don't have this set, we did conduct the analysis proposed by the reviewer.
The results of this analysis are available in Supplemental Figure XYZ.**
```
Update to include the figure number to save the reviewer search time :)

> Other:
> 

> > Labels within figures could often be increased in size to improve readability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Labels within figures could often be increased in size to improve readability.

```

**We have updated the size of our labels for this manuscript.**

 
> The methods section briefly comments on some ambiguous cases for the matching. Would these cases be the result of modifications that defy a 1:1 mapping, e.g.: multiple stories getting fused, or one story getting split?

**Some of these ambiguous cases involve abstract or main text changes, while other cases result in drastically different papers that share similar research content.
We provide a table of these ambiguous cases below.**

| biorxiv_doi_url                           | pmcid_url                                   | 
|-------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------| 

> | https://doi.org/10.1101/413450            | https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/PMC2967545 | 

Reviewer: Was this one ambiguous? This one looks like a no.

> | https://doi.org/10.1101/776930            | https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/PMC6210049 | 

Reviewer: This one also looks like a no. Did you pull the incorrect ones?

| https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.01.13.905521 | https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/PMC4171638 | 
| https://doi.org/10.1101/352963            | https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/PMC6116183 | 
| https://doi.org/10.1101/513002            | https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/PMC3545240 | 
| https://doi.org/10.1101/680843            | https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/PMC6379322 | 
| https://doi.org/10.1101/074450            | https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/PMC5776756 | 
| https://doi.org/10.1101/530758            | https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/PMC6663035 | 

> The results of Figure 2A could possibly be strengthened by avoiding Principal Components and replacing them by UMAP projects to account for non-linearity.

**We chose to use PCA for figure 2A as our goal was to visually highlight the concepts captured by our generated principal components.

> You can find a umap version of bioRxiv in [this notebook](https://github.com/greenelab/annorxiver/blob/b120488de2c197d93072678f80fce68d11d9e08d/biorxiv/word_vector_experiment/02_biorxiv_visualize_embeddings.ipynb).**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We did also perform a UMAP embedding, which we included in [this notebook](https://github.com/greenelab/annorxiver/blob/b120488de2c197d93072678f80fce68d11d9e08d/biorxiv/word_vector_experiment/02_biorxiv_visualize_embeddings.ipynb) but not the manuscript itself.**
```

> Although peripheral to the current manuscript, their approach and data would also seem capable to providing an update-able map of the biomedical sciences, by applying their approach of Figure 2 to the PMC corpus data which the authors access too. Such a map could be interesting for those trying to obtain an overview about biology. In case that the authors do not hold plans to publish this elsewhere, and in case that it would be less than a day of work, I would recommend adding such a map to the supplement or as a web service.

> **We accomplished this idea with our web application as we provided a 2D visualization of PMC's open-access corpus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Our web application provides 2D visualization of PMC's open-access corpus.
```

This visualization uses SAUCIE, an autoencoder designed for RNA-seq, instead of UMAP or PCA to generate the landscape.

> We also constructed an auto-updater pipeline for this tool, incorporating new papers into our website and visualization every month.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also constructed an auto-updater pipeline for this tool, incorporating new papers into our website and visualization every month.
We think that the map is now in place in our server, and that others could produce their own map using either our API or the underlying SAUCIE models.
SENTENCE HERE ABOUT HOW TO GET THE SAUCIE MODELS.**

Can you add the sentence about where to get them?
```

 
> Section "Building Classifiers to Detect Linguistically Similar Journal Venues and Published Articles":
> 
> "Specific journals publish articles in a focused topic area, while others publish articles that cover many topics. Likewise, some journals have a publication rate of at most hundreds of papers per year, while others publish at a rate of at least ten thousand papers per year. Accounting for these characteristics, we designed two approaches - one centered on manuscripts and another centered on journals."  << this could use some unpacking and/or reorganizing of details found later in this section--as I understand it, the variation in journals' topical breadth motivates the development of a manuscript-focused classifier (so that topically similar papers appearing in generalist journals do not get obscured) and the variation in journals' publication rates motivates a journal-focused classifier (so that high-output journals do not overwhelm more selective or less popular journals).

> **We recognize that this section is a bit dense and have updated our manuscript to unpack this explanation.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree with the reviewer that this section was unduly dense, and we have revised the manuscript to more clearly unpack this explanation.**
```

+ Furthermore, some journals focus on publishing articles within a concentrated topic area, while others cover many dispersive topics.
+ Therefore, we designed two approaches to account for these characteristics.
+ Our first approach focuses on articles that account for a journal's variation of publication topics.
+ This approach allows for topically similar papers to be retrieved independently of their respective journal.
+ Our second approach is centered on journals to account for varying publication rates.
+ This approach allows more selective or less popular journals to have equal representation to their high publishing counterparts.
```

> I'm also curious how often these two classifiers agree--are the top matching papers typically found in the top matching journals? In cases where the two classifiers tend to disagree, are there any common characteristics of the preprints the application is trying to classify?

**We evaluated our classifier agreement by calculating the overlap coefficient, which is designed to measure the overlap between two sets.
We randomly sampled 1700 out of 20232 known preprint-published pairs from our test dataset.

> We generated ten recommendations from our centroid classifier and ten unique journal recommendations from our paper-paper model for every sampled pair. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We generated ten recommendations from our centroid classifier and ten unique journal recommendations from our paper-paper model for every sampled pair (as the paper classifier can return papers from the same journal, this means we are examining ten or more manuscripts until we reach ten unique journals). 
```

This model achieved an average overlap coefficient of 0.21.

> Along with this calculation, we generated two random baselines for both our models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Along with this calculation, we generated baselines for each model.
```

Our first baseline was designed for our journal centroid model.

> We subsetted our preprint-published pairs to contain a distinct listing of each unique journal, then randomly sampled ten journals without replacement for each preprint-published pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We randomly sampled ten journals without replacement for each preprint-published pair.
```

We compared this random listing against our original journal centroid recommendation list and achieved an average score of 0.0184.
Our other baseline was designed for our paper-paper classifier.
We randomly sampled without filtering ten unique journals for each preprint-published pair and compared this sample to the original paper-paper recommendation list. 

> This baseline resulted in an average overlap coefficient of 0.009.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This baseline overlap coefficient was 0.009.
```

> Overall, our approach has better recommendation agreement compared to our randomly sampled baseline.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our takeaway from this analysis is that both approaches agree much more than they would due to random overlap, but the overlap coefficient remains modest.
Because of the relatively large number of discrepancies between the resulting sets, we were not able to identify a practical way to answer the characteristics of preprints that led to differences vs common predictions.**
```

> Minor Comments (by section):
> 
> Introduction:
> 
> The references of text mining on biomedical corpora should include Desai et al (2018) [https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/333922v1.abstract], which describes a similar recommendation engine.

> **We have added this reference to our manuscript.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree and have added this reference.**
```

```diff
- Textual analysis uses linguistic, statistical, and machine learning techniques to analyze and extract information from text [...].

+ Textual analysis uses linguistic, statistical, and machine learning techniques to analyze and extract information from text [...].
```

> Section "Comparing Corpora":
> 
> Inconsistent formatting of "spaCy"

**We updated our manuscript to make sure spaCy is formatted correctly.**

```diff
- Spacy is a lightweight and easy-to-use python package designed to preprocess and filter text [@spacy2].

+ SpaCy is a lightweight and easy-to-use python package designed to preprocess and filter text [@spacy2].
```

> Define "stopwords," since many readers may be unfamiliar with this term

> **We updated our manuscript to have an explanation of "stopwords".**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We added an explanation of "stopwords" to the manuscript.**
```

```diff
+ All corpora contain multiple words that do not have any meaning (e.g. conjunctions, prepositions, etc.) or occur with a high frequency.
+ These words are termed stopwords and are often removed to improve text processing pipelines.
```

> Section "Constructing a Document Representation for Life Sciences Text":
> 
> This switches back to using "words" instead of "tokens" as in the previous section

> **Thank you for pointing this out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Thank you for pointing out this inconsistency.
```

We have carefully edited our manuscript to make sure "tokens" was consistently used instead of "words".**
 
> Section "Measuring Time Duration for Preprint Publication Process":
> 
> Does this include the new preprint-publication pairs discovered in the previous section, or only those annotated in the data provided by the bioRxiv API?

**This section only contains preprints pairs that have been established before our document matching approach.**

> Section "Preprints with more versions or more text changes took longer to publish":
> 
> Fig. 4: can the longer publication times for scicomm/education papers (Fig 4a) be explained by a tendency to go through more versions (Fig 4b)?

> **We cannot accurately answer this question as most published articles in this category aren't contained in Pubmed Central's Open Access Corpus (PMCOA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We investigated this.
Unfortunately, we were not able to provide a detailed answer to this question as most published articles in this category weren't contained in Pubmed Central's Open Access Corpus (PMCOA).
```

> However, the preprints that do have a matching counterpart in PMCOA are in our supplemental files.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do provide a table of preprints that have a matching counterpart in PMCOA in our supplemental files, which provides the ingredients for further investigations.**
```

> It might be worthwhile to explore what happens post-publication to papers that go through more preprint revisions and take longer to publish, as this could have practical implications for authors as they decide when/if to submit/revise their preprints. Do these papers ultimately receive more citations, end up in journals with higher impact factors, or receive more attention on social media?

> **We have provided a supplemental file containing preprints and corresponding published information for anyone to inspect these changes themselves.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree that this is an interesting question.
We thought that this work would be outside the scope of this manuscript, but we wanted to make it as easy as possible for this to be tackled in the future.
We provide a supplemental file (NAME OF FILE HERE) containing preprints and corresponding publication to enable these future studies.**
```
Add the name of the file - make your reviewer's life as easy as possible!

> Section "Preprints with similar document embeddings share publication venues":
> 
> From personal experience, converting bioRxiv PDFs to text sometimes introduces weird noise and artifacts. Since bioRxiv and medRxiv both offer full-text HTML for many (if not all?) articles, is it possible to modify the application to use this cleaner data source?

> **At the time of submission, we recognize that using XML is better than solely relying on the pdf parser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**At the time of submission, we recognized that using XML was better than solely relying on a pdf parser.
```

> We updated our website to attempt to retrieve the XML version first, then resort to the pdf parser if the XML version is unavailable.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have now updated the webserver to attempt to retrieve the XML version first, then resort to the pdf parser if the XML version is unavailable.**
```

> There are several casually/awkwardly-worded or grammatically incorrect sentences throughout that could use some finesse:
> 
> Introduction:
> 
> "We hypothesize that preprints and biomedical text are pretty similar…"
> 
> Measuring Time Duration for Preprint Publication Process:
> 
> "Preprints that are published can take varying amounts of time to be published."
> 
> "We accomplish this by first randomly sampled with replacement a pair of preprints…"
> 
> Building Classifiers to Detect Linguistically Similar Journal Venues and Published Articles:
> 
> "Preprints are more likely to be published in journals that contained similar content to work in question."
> 
> Web Application for Discovering Similar Preprints and Journals:
> 
> "The application downloads a pdf version of any preprint hosted on the bioRxiv or medRxiv server uses PyMuPDF to extract text from the downloaded pdf and feeds the extracted text into our CBOW model to construct a document embedding representation."
> 
> Preprints with more versions or more text changes took longer to publish:
> 
> "Each new version adds additional 51 days before a preprint is published."

> **We have updated these sentences to be more transparent within our manuscript.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We have updated these sentences in the manuscript.
We thank the reviewer for providing these corrections.**
```
